# RMI-Encryption

RMI Encryption Distributed Systems project - Diarmuid Byrne (G00302711)

This project is a Vigenere Cypher cracker using Remote Method Invocation (RMI).
It works through the Tomcat server, which, when ran brings the user to a
web page that allows them to input the cyphertext, the max key length, and an IP.
It the user leaves the IP address blank, the RMI will be ran on the local machine.

This project is split into two sections:
 - The RMI-powered Vigenere Cypher Breaker (Vigenere.jar)
 - The Server that sends RMI requests (cracker.war)

Vigenere.jar:
The Vigenere contains multiple classes.
- Vigenere decrypts and encrypts a given plaintext entry with a given key.
- Key Enumerator enumerates a number of generated keys, while decoding
the cyphertext with them. It then scores that result based on the (logged)
frequency it occurs in a given text file (The default file is War and Peace).
The frequency is logged to prevent very common quadgrams from
influencing the result.
- QuadgramMap parses the specified text file and scores all
the quadgrams in the list using a HashMap. It also scores the keys
generated by KeyEnumerator.
- VigenereBreaker is a remoteInterface. VigenereBreakerImpl is the
implementation of VigenereBreaker which handles the cracking.
- VigenereService is another remoteInterface. It adds a layer of abstraction by
encapsulating an instance of VigenereBreaker. VigenereServiceImpl is the remote object.

Cracker.war:
The war file controls the server-side tasks, such as creating
requests with given parameters. It also provides functionality for threading.
- CrackerHandler takes the parameters the user entered and passes the request off
to an in queue. It also takes the result from an out queue
and displays the information on screen.
- Request encapsulates the parameters the user entered.
- VigenereHandler does a Naming.Lookup on the localhost.
If the user specified a different ip, it runs a Naming.Lookup on
that address instead.
- VigenereRequestManager manages the requests using threads.
